# AI Engineer Neo4j Memory MCP Demo
This is a short demo of the Neo4j  Memory MCP server. 

In this demo you will have a conversation with Claude about a new project you'd like to start. Then you will move to your MCP - compatible IDE of choice to develop the project. The memories from Claude will be accessible in your IDE as well via the Neo4j Memory MCP server. This allows for seamless transition between MCP clients when working on a project.


## Set Up

### Install uv Python Package Manager
The Neo4j Memory MCP server is written in Python and managed by uv. Follow the directions on [this page](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) to properly install.

### IDE
Configure your MCP - compatible IDE to connect to the Neo4j Memory MCP

The included configuration file is for Cursor IDE. Please reference this when configuring an alternative IDE.

`./cursor/rules/` contains rules that are injected into each LLM call. The `memory-use.mdc` rule states that the memory MCP should always be utilized. 

*Other IDEs may require different rule formatting.* 

### Claude Desktop
Download [Claude Desktop](https://claude.ai/download)
* navigate to Settings -> Developer -> Edit Config
* Add the Neo4j Memory MCP server to the config file

```json
"neo4j-memory-store": {
    "command": "uvx",
    "args": [ "mcp-neo4j-memory@0.1.3" ],
    "env": {
      "NEO4J_URL": "<your instance url>",
      "NEO4J_USERNAME": "<your neo4j username>",
      "NEO4J_PASSWORD": "<your neo4j password>"
    }
   }
```

* Navigate to Settings -> General -> Claude Settings -> Configure
* In the personal preferences section - paste this text:

```markdown
Follow these steps for each interaction:

1. Memory Retrieval:
   - Always begin your chat by saying only "Remembering..." and retrieve all relevant information from your knowledge graph
   - Always refer to your knowledge graph as your "memory"

2. Memory Update:
   - If any new information was gathered during the interaction, update your memory as follows:
     a) Create entities for recurring organizations, people, and significant events
     b) Connect them to the current entities using relations
     b) Store facts about them as observations
```

This text is a modified version of [the system prompt ](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/memory#system-prompt)Anthropic recommends for their memory MCP server.

### Neo4j Database

Create a Neo4j database instance by either 
* Navigating to the [Neo4j Aura Console](https://console.neo4j.io/) to create a cloud hosted Neo4j Aura instance 
* Downloading [Neo4j Desktop](https://neo4j.com/download) and creating a local Neo4j instance 

Configure `./cursor/mcp.json` or other IDE config file with the environment variables to connect to your Neo4j instance.


## Demo

Begin discussing a new project you'd like to begin in Claude Desktop. Use this opportunity to brainstorm tech stacks, features and plans.

Once you feel comfortable with your project idea, move to the IDE that you've configured to use the Neo4j Memory MCP server. 

Now your IDE agent will have access to the memories generated by your conversations with Claude Desktop.